# Intuition

My intuition behind this solution was to group anagrams together by sorting each string in the input array. Anagrams are words or phrases that have the same characters when rearranged. By sorting each string, we can transform anagrams into the same key, allowing us to group them together efficiently.

This means we have the sorted string as a key and add all values to this key, that when sorted, return the same string.

## Approach

1. First, handle edge cases. If the input array `strs` is null or empty, it will return an empty list since there are no strings to group.

2. Afterwards use a `HashMap` called `map` to store the sorted strings as keys and their corresponding anagrams as values. The key is the sorted string, and the value is a list of original strings that are anagrams of each other.

3. I will iterate through each string `str` in the input array:
   - Convert the string to a character array `charArr`.
   - Sort `charArr` in ascending order.
   - Convert the sorted character array back to a string, `sortedString`.

4. Check if `sortedString` is already a key in the `map`. If not, create a new entry with an empty list as its value.

5. Add the original string `str` to the list associated with the `sortedString` key in the `map`. This groups anagrams together under the same key.

6. After processing all strings in the input array, return a list containing all the lists of anagrams, which are the values in the `map`.

## Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n * k * log(k))$
  - `n` is the number of strings in the input array.
  - `k` is the maximum length of a string in the input array.
  - Sorting each string takes $O(k * log(k))$ time, and we do this for each of the `n` strings.

- Space complexity: $O(n * k)$
  - We use space to store the `map`, where there can be up to `n` keys (sorted strings) and `n` lists of strings (anagrams).

## Code

```java
class Solution {
    public List<List<String>> groupAnagrams(String[] strs) {
        if (strs == null || strs.length == 0)
            return new ArrayList<>(); // Return an empty list if there are no input strings

        // Create a map to store sorted strings as keys and their corresponding anagrams as values
        Map<String, List<String>> map = new HashMap<>();

        for (String str : strs) {
            // Convert the string to a character array to sort it and set it back as a new string
            char[] charArr = str.toCharArray();
            Arrays.sort(charArr);
            String sortedString = String.valueOf(charArr);

            // If the sorted string is not in the map, create a new list for it
            if (!map.containsKey(sortedString))
                map.put(sortedString, new ArrayList<>());

            // Add the original string to the list of anagrams for the sorted string
            map.get(sortedString).add(str);
        }

        return new ArrayList<>(map.values());
    }
}
```