# Product of Array Except Self

## Intuition
My initial thoughts on solving this problem are to find a way to compute the product of all elements in the array except for the current element. This can be achieved by calculating the product of all elements to the left and the product of all elements to the right of each element in the array.

## First Approach: Brute Force Loop

My initial idea was to loop over each element twice, using two for loops, which is easy but the time complexity of this solution is $O(n^2)$. This is a very simple and working approach if the time does not matter.

### Code

```java
public int[] productExceptSelfBruteForce(int[] nums) {
    int[] answer = new int[nums.length];
    for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
        answer[i] = 1;
        for (int j = 0; j < nums.length; j++) {
            if (i != j)
                answer[i] *= nums[j];
        }
    }
    return answer;
}
```

## Second Approach: Calculating the prefix and suffix of each element
The approach to solving this problem involves the following steps:

1. Initialize three arrays:
   - `answer`: To store the final result, which will be the product of all elements except self.
   - `prefix`: To store the product of all elements to the left of each element in the array.
   - `suffix`: To store the product of all elements to the right of each element in the array.

2. Initialize the first element of the `prefix` array as 1 because the first element does not have any elements to its left. Similarly, initialize the last element of the `suffix` array as 1 because the last element does not have any elements to its right.

3. Iterate through the `nums` array:
   - Calculate the `prefix` value for each element by multiplying the previous `prefix` value with the corresponding element in the `nums` array.
   - Calculate the `suffix` value for each element by multiplying the previous `suffix` value with the corresponding element in the `nums` array, but in reverse order.

4. Finally, iterate through the `nums` array once again to calculate the `answer` array. For each element, multiply the corresponding `prefix` and `suffix` values to get the product of all elements except self.

### Complexity
- Time complexity: The time complexity of this solution is $O(n)$, where `n` is the length of the `nums` array. We perform three passes through the array:
   - One pass to calculate the `prefix` values.
   - One pass to calculate the `suffix` values.
   - One pass to calculate the `answer` array.

- Space complexity: The space complexity is $O(n)$ as well. We use three arrays of the same length as the `nums` array to store intermediate results.

### Code
```java
public int[] productExceptSelf(int[] nums) {
    int arrayLength = nums.length;
    int[] answer = new int[arrayLength];
    int[] prefix = new int[arrayLength];
    int[] suffix = new int[arrayLength];
    prefix[0] = 1; // The first element does not have a prefix, so we set it neutral (1 for multiplications)
    suffix[arrayLength-1] = 1; // Same goes for the last element as it does not have a suffix
    for (int i = 1; i < arrayLength; i++) {
        prefix[i] = nums[i - 1] * prefix[i - 1];
        suffix[arrayLength - i - 1] = nums[arrayLength - i] * suffix[arrayLength - i];
    }
    for (int i = 0; i < arrayLength; i++) {
        answer[i] = prefix[i] * suffix[i];
    }
    return answer;
}
```

If this solution helped you, you can check out all of my code [here](https://github.com/PalmaAnd/Programming-Problems).