# Merge Two Sorted Lists

## Intuition

When merging two sorted linked lists, my first thought was a recursive approach. The idea is to compare the values of the current nodes in both lists and select the smaller one to be the next node in the merged list and set repace the current node in that list, by the next one. This process continues recursively until one of the input lists is null/empty.

## Approach

1. Create a new `ListNode` called `sortedList` to keep track of the merged list.
2. Check if either of the input lists is empty. If one of them is empty, return the other list because the merged list would be the non-empty list.
3. Compare the values of the current nodes in `list1.val` and `list2.val`.
4. Select the node with the smaller value to be the next node in `sortedList`, and advance the pointer of the corresponding list by setting it to `.next`.
5. Recursively call the `mergeTwoLists` function with the updated lists.
6. Continue this process until either one of `list1` or `list2` are exhausted.
7. Return the `sortedList`, which now contains the merged sorted linked list.

## Complexity

- Time complexity: $$O(n)$$ Where $n$ is the total number of nodes in the two input lists. This is because we visit each node once during the merge process.
- Space complexity: $$O(n)$$ Where $n$ is the space required for the recursive call stack. In the worst case, the stack depth is proportional to the number of nodes in the input lists.

## Code

```java
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * public class ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode next;
 *     ListNode() {}
 *     ListNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     ListNode(int val, ListNode next) { this.val = val; this.next = next; }
 * }
 */

class Solution {
    public ListNode mergeTwoLists(ListNode list1, ListNode list2) {
        ListNode sortedList = new ListNode();
        if (list1 == null)
            return list2;
        if (list2 == null)
            return list1;
        if (list1.val < list2.val){
            sortedList = list1;
            list1 = list1.next;
        } else {
            sortedList = list2;
            list2 = list2.next;
        }
        sortedList.next = mergeTwoLists(list1, list2);
        return sortedList;
    }
}
```
